docs/install.md, before:

# Install guide

Luxon provides different builds for different JS environments. See below for a link to the right one and instructions on how to use it.

## Basic browser setup

* [Download full](../../global/luxon.js)
* [Download minified](../../global/luxon.min.js)

Just include Luxon in a script tag. You can access its various classes through the `luxon` global.

```html
<script src="luxon.js"></script>
```

You may wish to alias the classes you use:

```js
var DateTime = luxon.DateTime;
```

## Node

Install via NPM:

```
npm install --save luxon
```

```js
const { DateTime } = require('luxon');
```

## AMD (System.js, RequireJS, etc)

* [Download full](../../amd/luxon.js)
* [Download minified](../../amd/luxon.min.js)

```js
requirejs(['luxon'], function(luxon) {
  //...
});
```

## ES6

* [Download full](../../es6/luxon.js)
* [Download minified](../../es6/luxon.min.js)

```js
import { DateTime } from 'luxon';
```

## Webpack

```
npm install --save luxon
```

```js
import { DateTime } from 'luxon';
```

## Meteor

[Help wanted.]

## React Native

[This section is a bit of a placeholder because I know little about RN. So contributions welcome!]

Luxon works in React Native. On Android, the Intl API isn't provided out of the box. Luxon works without Intl support but a lot of its features work as you expect, especially regarding time zones and internationalization. You can use the international variant of [jsc-android-buildscripts](https://github.com/SoftwareMansion/jsc-android-buildscripts) to Intl support.

Commit message:

Reorganize build (#95)
* Separate cjs-browser and node builds and use the browser field in package.json
* Explicitly support Node >= 6
* Use preset-env and be explicit
* Remove polyfills from all the builds
* Add an additional global-filled build
* Fix missing IE polyfill in that build
* Rewrite support matrix doc

docs/install.md, after:

# Install guide

Luxon provides different builds for different JS environments. See below for a link to the right one and instructions on how to use it. Luxon supports all modern platforms, but see [the support matrix](../faq/matrix.html) for additional details.

## Basic browser setup

* [Download full](../../global/luxon.js)
* [Download minified](../../global/luxon.min.js)

Just include Luxon in a script tag. You can access its various classes through the `luxon` global.

```html
<script src="luxon.js"></script>
```

You may wish to alias the classes you use:

```js
var DateTime = luxon.DateTime;
```

### Internet Explorer

If you're supporting IE 10 or 11, you need some polyfills. You have two options: use a polyfilled build or apply the polyfills yourself. The polyfilled builds are here:

* [Download full polyfilled](../../global-filled/luxon.js)
* [Download minified polyfilled](../../global-filled/luxon.min.js)

To polyfill it yourself, use polyfill.io:

```html
<script src="https://cdn.polyfill.io/v2/polyfill.min.js"></script>
```

## Node

Supports Node 6+. Install via NPM:

```
npm install --save luxon
```

```js
const { DateTime } = require('luxon');
```

## AMD (System.js, RequireJS, etc)

* [Download full](../../amd/luxon.js)
* [Download minified](../../amd/luxon.min.js)

```js
requirejs(['luxon'], function(luxon) {
  //...
});
```

## ES6

* [Download full](../../es6/luxon.js)
* [Download minified](../../es6/luxon.min.js)

```js
import { DateTime } from 'luxon';
```

## Webpack

```
npm install --save luxon
```

```js
import { DateTime } from 'luxon';
```

## Meteor

[Help wanted.]
